Q1. Classes vs. Objects:

1) Explain the difference between a class and an object.
   class def:- class is blueprint of an object. it is a virtual
   object:- object is a intance of a class real world entity.object is reality

2) Provide an example of a real-world scenario where you would use a class.
   
   class tabel:

Q2.Attributes and Methods:
   1) What are attributes and methods in a class?
   2) Create a class representing a 'Car' with attributes like 'model' and 'color' and a method like 'start_engine'.

Q3. Inheritance:
  1) Define inheritance in Python.
      Inheritance allows us to define a class that inherits all the methods and properties from another class.
      Parent class is the class being inherited from, also called base class.
      Child class is the class that inherits from another class, also called derived class.
   
  2)Create a base class 'Animal' and a derived class 'Dog' inheriting from it.
     
     class animal:
       def run(self):
         print("animal run")

    
       def eat(self):
         print ("animal eat")

    class dog(animal):
       def breed(self):
         print("animal breed is golden retriver")


     	dog=dog()
	dog.breed()
	dog.run()
	dog.eat()

Q4.Encapsulation:
   1)Explain encapsulation.
    encapsulation means wrapping of data and method into a single unit.
    set get concept not clear
    
   2)How can you achieve encapsulation in Python?


Q5. Polymorphism:
   1) What is polymorphism?
       Polymorphism in Python allows us to define methods in the child class with the same name as defined in their parent class

   2)Provide an example of polymorphism using method overriding.

    class android:
      def mi(self):
        print("this is mitv")

    class tv(android):
      def sony(self):
        print("this is sonytv")
    
      def mi(self):
        super().mi()
        print("this is mi tv")

obj=tv()
obj.sony()
obj.mi()

Q6.Initialization and Self:
   1) What is the purpose of the `__init__` method?

   
    2)Why is `self` used in Python classes?
     self is a current object.Whatever current object is present takes self





Parent class is the class being inherited from, also called base class.

Child class is the class that inherits from another class, also called derived class.